About GreenLathe
GreenLathe is a collective driving scientific innovation rooted in solarpunk values which seeks to empower a sustainable and healthier future by connecting scientists, researchers, inventors, volunteers, activists, and projects. We believe the fight against global warming is best tackled through open science, technology, collective action, and equitable access. 

To help build a greater network, we will be hosting themed conferences to showcase projects, teaching workshops to build skills, and providing helpful resources for individuals and organizations alike.

Official Partners 
Public Invention - https://www.pubinv.org/

Collaboratory Science - link not available

Appropedia - https://www.appropedia.org/Welcome_to_Appropedia

Why “solarpunk”?
Solarpunk started as a literature/art concept which has grown into a social movement which paints an optimistic, healthier vision of the future through highly sustainable tech innovation, community wellness, parallel power structures, actionable equity, and alternate frameworks for sustainable growth. 

“Solar” comes from solar energy, the roughly 6 kilowatt hours that fall on any square meter on earth every day, captured by plants, solar panels, and indirectly via sea current, wind, and low impact hydro. Moving away from power sources that require intense and polluting industrial processes like Fossil Fuels and Nuclear. 

“Punk” refers to the DIY, grassroots, and decolonial counterculture aspects of the movement, such as empowering community action, enabling access to knowledge, prioritizing human well-being, focusing on open-source technologies, and finding alternatives to capitalism.  

What does it mean to do solarpunk science?
Solarpunk science is an approach to scientific inquiry and innovation that centers on sustainability, community empowerment, addressing inequity directly, and decentralizing resources. If we want a livable future, we must build around innovation which is accessible by all, builds community resilience, and allows us to thrive within the planet’s limits. 

The solarpunk philosophy is a critical aspect of GreenLathe, as we believe that open, sustainable science and technology are critical paths to a better future. Decentralizing knowledge and power are essential to empower as many communities as possible. Increasing accessibility to reliable food, safe water, clean energy, medicine, abundant shelter, practical and interdisciplinary education, and open source designs are essential for an equitable future. 

The fight against the pollution and resource crisis causing anthropogenic global warming is primarily a cultural one. We must push back against unsustainable industrialism, corporatism, greed, inequitable power structures, and manufactured scarcity.

By working together, we can forge a sustainable, healthier, and more hopeful future.